URL: https://college.harvard.edu/admissions
Video description:Aerial shots of Harvard, students around campus
Aerial shots of Harvard, students around campus
Admissions
Overview
The Future is Calling
Harness your curiosity and learn about the world—and yourself. Through our liberal arts and sciences curriculum, you'll discover how to use your passions to build a bright future.
Frequently Asked Questions
Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver?We are committed to making the application process accessible for all students. If the admissions application fee presents a hardship for you or your family and you plan on applying for financial aid, the fee will be waived. Please follow the steps below to request a fee waiver:Common ApplicationConfirm that you meet at least one of the indicators of economic need and then select “Yes” to the prompt “You are eligible for application fee waivers if you meet one or more of the following criteria."Complete the fee waiver signature.Coalition Application, Powered by ScoirConfirm that you meet at least one of the indicators of economic need listed in the Fee Waiver section of your Profile.If you do not meet one of the indicators of economic need, you may enter the Harvard-specific fee waiver code on the payment page: JH3S5Q2LX9Transfer ApplicantsPlease see theTransfer Application Requirementsfor information about requesting a transfer application fee waiver.
We are committed to making the application process accessible for all students. If the admissions application fee presents a hardship for you or your family and you plan on applying for financial aid, the fee will be waived. Please follow the steps below to request a fee waiver:
Common Application
Confirm that you meet at least one of the indicators of economic need and then select “Yes” to the prompt “You are eligible for application fee waivers if you meet one or more of the following criteria."
Complete the fee waiver signature.
Coalition Application, Powered by Scoir
Confirm that you meet at least one of the indicators of economic need listed in the Fee Waiver section of your Profile.
If you do not meet one of the indicators of economic need, you may enter the Harvard-specific fee waiver code on the payment page: JH3S5Q2LX9
Transfer Applicants
Please see theTransfer Application Requirementsfor information about requesting a transfer application fee waiver.
What admissions criteria do you use?There is no formula for gaining admission to Harvard. Academic accomplishment in high school is important, but the Admissions Committee also considers many other criteria, such as community involvement, leadership and distinction in extracurricular activities, and personal qualities and character. We rely on teachers, counselors, and alumni to share information with us about an applicant's strength of character, their ability to overcome adversity, and other personal qualities.
There is no formula for gaining admission to Harvard. Academic accomplishment in high school is important, but the Admissions Committee also considers many other criteria, such as community involvement, leadership and distinction in extracurricular activities, and personal qualities and character. We rely on teachers, counselors, and alumni to share information with us about an applicant's strength of character, their ability to overcome adversity, and other personal qualities.
Which standardized tests does Harvard require?Harvard requires the SAT or ACT to meet its standardized testing requirement.In exceptional cases, when those are not accessible for a student, one of the following can meet the requirement:AP exam resultsIB Actual or Predicted ScoresGCSE/A-Level Actual or Predicted ResultsNational Leaving Exams Results (externally assessed) or PredictionsExceptional cases typically involve a student facing challenges in paying for or accessing a test site or a student being unable to secure an available seat at a test site prior to the Regular Decision deadline. The Admissions Committee does not expect applicants to go to extraordinary measures to access SAT or ACT test sites. Applicants will have an opportunity to provide an explanation for why they are unable to submit the SAT or ACT.Students who have other forms of testing listed above (AP, IB, GCSE, or National Leaving Exams) are still expected to take an SAT or ACT and submit those scores, if financial considerations or test availability would not limit their ability to do so.English language proficiency examinations such as the TOEFL, IELTS and Duolingocannot be usedto meet the standardized testing requirement, though students are welcome to submit them for review as part of their application materials.Students may self report their standardized test scores.If the cost of taking the SAT or ACT is of concern, keep in mind that both the College Board and ACT provide fee waivers to some domestic students from low-income families. Students who are non-US citizens attending secondary schools outside the US are not typically eligible for SAT or ACT fee waivers. If applicants are ineligible for fee waivers, but still face financial hardship in paying for a SAT or ACT, the Admissions Committee still encourages these students to apply. We encourage students in this situation to take and submit results from other standardized tests to which they have greater access. For instance, students lacking access to the SAT or ACT may submit AP or GCSE results, IB/A-level/other national leaving exam predictions or results.
Harvard requires the SAT or ACT to meet its standardized testing requirement.In exceptional cases, when those are not accessible for a student, one of the following can meet the requirement:
AP exam results
IB Actual or Predicted Scores
GCSE/A-Level Actual or Predicted Results
National Leaving Exams Results (externally assessed) or Predictions
Exceptional cases typically involve a student facing challenges in paying for or accessing a test site or a student being unable to secure an available seat at a test site prior to the Regular Decision deadline. The Admissions Committee does not expect applicants to go to extraordinary measures to access SAT or ACT test sites. Applicants will have an opportunity to provide an explanation for why they are unable to submit the SAT or ACT.
Students who have other forms of testing listed above (AP, IB, GCSE, or National Leaving Exams) are still expected to take an SAT or ACT and submit those scores, if financial considerations or test availability would not limit their ability to do so.
English language proficiency examinations such as the TOEFL, IELTS and Duolingocannot be usedto meet the standardized testing requirement, though students are welcome to submit them for review as part of their application materials.Students may self report their standardized test scores.If the cost of taking the SAT or ACT is of concern, keep in mind that both the College Board and ACT provide fee waivers to some domestic students from low-income families. Students who are non-US citizens attending secondary schools outside the US are not typically eligible for SAT or ACT fee waivers. If applicants are ineligible for fee waivers, but still face financial hardship in paying for a SAT or ACT, the Admissions Committee still encourages these students to apply. We encourage students in this situation to take and submit results from other standardized tests to which they have greater access. For instance, students lacking access to the SAT or ACT may submit AP or GCSE results, IB/A-level/other national leaving exam predictions or results.
What is included in the Harvard supplement?The supplement includes five required short-answer questions, each with a 150 word limit. We want to ensure that every student has the same opportunity to reflect on and share how their life experiences and academic and extracurricular activities shaped them, how they will engage with others at Harvard, and their aspirations for the future. Our continued focus is on considering the whole student in the admissions process and how they have interacted with the world.Harvard has long recognized the importance of enrolling a student body with a diversity of perspectives and experiences. How will the life experiences that shaped who you are today enable you to contribute to Harvard?Describe a time when you strongly disagreed with someone about an idea or issue. How did you communicate or engage with this person? What did you learn from this experience?Briefly describe any of your extracurricular activities, employment experience, travel, or family responsibilities that have shaped who you are.How do you hope to use your Harvard education in the future?Top 3 things your roommates might like to know about you.
The supplement includes five required short-answer questions, each with a 150 word limit. We want to ensure that every student has the same opportunity to reflect on and share how their life experiences and academic and extracurricular activities shaped them, how they will engage with others at Harvard, and their aspirations for the future. Our continued focus is on considering the whole student in the admissions process and how they have interacted with the world.
Harvard has long recognized the importance of enrolling a student body with a diversity of perspectives and experiences. How will the life experiences that shaped who you are today enable you to contribute to Harvard?
Describe a time when you strongly disagreed with someone about an idea or issue. How did you communicate or engage with this person? What did you learn from this experience?
Briefly describe any of your extracurricular activities, employment experience, travel, or family responsibilities that have shaped who you are.
How do you hope to use your Harvard education in the future?
Top 3 things your roommates might like to know about you.
Apply
How to Apply
Admissions Deadlines
Restrictive Early Action applicants are notified by mid-December.
Regular Decision applicants will be notified by the end of March.
Visit & Connect
Visit & Connect
Take a Virtual Tour
Why Harvard
Crimson PrideHarvard is home to 42 Division I intercollegiate sports teams - more than any other college in the country.
Crimson Pride
Harvard is home to 42 Division I intercollegiate sports teams - more than any other college in the country.
InnovationFrom physical spaces to funding, Harvard provides the support for students to investigate and explore their world.
Innovation
From physical spaces to funding, Harvard provides the support for students to investigate and explore their world.
From physical spaces to funding, Harvard provides the support for students to investigate and explore their world.
Groundbreaking ResearchUndergraduates have access to more than $7 million in funding to pursue research in the sciences, social sciences, arts, or humanities.
Groundbreaking Research
Undergraduates have access to more than $7 million in funding to pursue research in the sciences, social sciences, arts, or humanities.
Undergraduates have access to more than $7 million in funding to pursue research in the sciences, social sciences, arts, or humanities.
Creative ExpressionTheater, Dance, and Media - one of Harvard's newest concentrations - is just one of the many pathways in the arts and humanities.
Creative Expression
Theater, Dance, and Media - one of Harvard's newest concentrations - is just one of the many pathways in the arts and humanities.
Afford Harvard
Harvard is affordable for all admitted students. Financial aid covers all demonstrated need forallstudents. Families making under $100,000 a year pay nothing for their student's education, and families making under $200,000 a year will pay no tuition, with additional aid likely.
Calculate Your Estimated Scholarship
How affordable is Harvard? See for yourself with our Net Price Calculator.
Spotlights and Stories
My Favorite Places On / Around Campus
As I look back on my 4 years, I would like to share some of my favorite places around Harvard's campus.
Latest Stories
With my roommates at the end of one of my concerts.Performance Spaces at Harvard, Part 2: How Paine Hall Helped Me Find Friends and Community Through MusicDuring my freshman year, especially in the fall semester, I was nervous about how making friends would work in college.Read Full Story
Performance Spaces at Harvard, Part 2: How Paine Hall Helped Me Find Friends and Community Through Music
During my freshman year, especially in the fall semester, I was nervous about how making friends would work in college.
Hey, mate! I just studied abroad!People have told me that the best way to appreciate Harvard is to study abroad, and that it’s one of the best opportunities that Harvard has to offer.Read Full Story
Hey, mate! I just studied abroad!
People have told me that the best way to appreciate Harvard is to study abroad, and that it’s one of the best opportunities that Harvard has to offer.
My First-Year Journey to Finding CommunityOne of the best decisions I made was applying to the First-Year International Program, known as FIP in Harvard lingo. It’s one of the pre-orientation programs, designed specifically for international students.Read Full Story
My First-Year Journey to Finding Community
One of the best decisions I made was applying to the First-Year International Program, known as FIP in Harvard lingo. It’s one of the pre-orientation programs, designed specifically for international students.
Admissions News
College accepts 1,937 to Class of 2028March 28th, 2024
College accepts 1,937 to Class of 2028
College accepts 692 under Early Action ProgramDecember 14th, 2023
College accepts 692 under Early Action Program
Harvard further expands financial aid to ease accessMarch 31st, 2023
Harvard further expands financial aid to ease access
Admissions Statistics
Admissions Statistics
A Profile of the Admitted Class of 2029
47,89347,893Applicants
47,89347,893Applicants
2,0032,003Admitted students
2,0032,003Admitted students
1616%International students
1616%International students
5555%Receive need-based scholarships
5555%Receive need-based scholarships
Learn More About Harvard
Join our email list to download our brochure and stay in touch.
Related Topics
First-Year Applicants
Here's everything you need to know about applying to Harvard College as a first-year applicant.
Apply For Financial Aid
We strive to make our financial aid application as streamlined as possible.
Application Requirements
Here you'll find a detailed explanation of each requirement of the application, including teacher recommendations, test scores, and school reports.
Policies and Reporting
Annual Fire Safety ReportThe Harvard University Environmental Health and Safety Department publishes theAnnual Fire Safety Report, which includes fire safety polices, evacuation procedures, and fire statistics.
The Harvard University Environmental Health and Safety Department publishes theAnnual Fire Safety Report, which includes fire safety polices, evacuation procedures, and fire statistics.
Clery (Campus Security) ActThe University is required by federal law (The Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act, 20 U.S.C. 1092(f), known as the “Clery Act”) to publish an annual security report. A copy of the report as well as the disclosure procedures can be found on theHarvard University Police website.
The University is required by federal law (The Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act, 20 U.S.C. 1092(f), known as the “Clery Act”) to publish an annual security report. A copy of the report as well as the disclosure procedures can be found on theHarvard University Police website.
Code of ConductHarvard University is committed to the highest standard of ethics and conduct, and financial aid staff are bound to the conflict of interest and commitment policies applicable to all Harvard employees. Harvard has adopted aCode of Conductrelating to educational loan programs.
Harvard University is committed to the highest standard of ethics and conduct, and financial aid staff are bound to the conflict of interest and commitment policies applicable to all Harvard employees. Harvard has adopted aCode of Conductrelating to educational loan programs.
Copyright InfringementHarvard University is committed to maintaining the integrity and availability of the Harvard network for the vital educational and research purposes for which it was designed and prohibits the use of its network to violate the law, including the U.S.Copyright Act. Please read theannual copyright disclosure.
Harvard University is committed to maintaining the integrity and availability of the Harvard network for the vital educational and research purposes for which it was designed and prohibits the use of its network to violate the law, including the U.S.Copyright Act. Please read theannual copyright disclosure.
DisabilityUniversity Disability Servicesserves as a central resource on disability-related information, procedures and services for the University community and provides expertise in the development, implementation, and acquisition of standard disability-related University practices, procedures and resources.
University Disability Servicesserves as a central resource on disability-related information, procedures and services for the University community and provides expertise in the development, implementation, and acquisition of standard disability-related University practices, procedures and resources.
FERPAThe Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974, as amended (“FERPA”) is a federal law that gives students certain rights with respect to their education records. More information is available on theRegistrar’s website.
The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974, as amended (“FERPA”) is a federal law that gives students certain rights with respect to their education records. More information is available on theRegistrar’s website.
Retention and Graduation RatesAs required, we have reported our graduation rates of degree-seeking, first-time, full-time undergraduates to the department via theIPEDs website. Additional rates for students in select categories can be found on thischart.
As required, we have reported our graduation rates of degree-seeking, first-time, full-time undergraduates to the department via theIPEDs website. Additional rates for students in select categories can be found on thischart.
URL: https://college.harvard.edu/financial-aid
Video description:Widener interior, student reads book in library
Widener interior, student reads book in library
Financial Aid
Overview
The Griffin Financial Aid Office provides need-based aid that allows us to bring the best students to Harvard, regardless of their ability to pay. Thanks in large part toKen Griffin’s transformative generosity, along with that of many other donors who support our groundbreaking financial aid program, twenty-four percent of students pay nothing to attend, and more than half receive need-based scholarships. So, yes—you can afford Harvard.
Frequently Asked Questions
How do I apply for aid?You can find our financial aid application instructions (which apply to all students, regardless of country of residence or citizenship status)here.
You can find our financial aid application instructions (which apply to all students, regardless of country of residence or citizenship status)here.
Is there financial aid available for foreign students?Yes, financial aid is available for foreign students on exactly the same basis as for American students. Although foreign students are not eligible for any federal funding, the College has its own job and scholarship money available to foreign students.
Yes, financial aid is available for foreign students on exactly the same basis as for American students. Although foreign students are not eligible for any federal funding, the College has its own job and scholarship money available to foreign students.
What happens if I miss the financial aid deadline?Prospective students who complete the financial aid application by the financial aid deadline will receive their financial aid decisions at the time that admissions decisions are released. If you complete your application after the deadline, there is no penalty or reduction in the amount of aid you can receive, you just may experience a delay in receiving your financial aid decision.
Prospective students who complete the financial aid application by the financial aid deadline will receive their financial aid decisions at the time that admissions decisions are released. If you complete your application after the deadline, there is no penalty or reduction in the amount of aid you can receive, you just may experience a delay in receiving your financial aid decision.
How can I see what is missing/received and when?We are not able to track financial aid application materials for prospective students until they have been admitted. If a student is admitted and indicated they wished to apply for aid, we will let them know at that point what has been received or is missing.For current students, you can see what is missing and/or received by logging into my.harvard. We will not begin tracking documents for the next academic year until mid-February before that year starts, at which time we will post which documents are received/missing on yourmy.harvard.eduportal. Until that point, the documents showing on yourmy.harvardportal will be those from this current school year.
We are not able to track financial aid application materials for prospective students until they have been admitted. If a student is admitted and indicated they wished to apply for aid, we will let them know at that point what has been received or is missing.
For current students, you can see what is missing and/or received by logging into my.harvard. We will not begin tracking documents for the next academic year until mid-February before that year starts, at which time we will post which documents are received/missing on yourmy.harvard.eduportal. Until that point, the documents showing on yourmy.harvardportal will be those from this current school year.
What Does Harvard Cost?
Harvard costs what your family can afford. We make sure of that.
$100,000 family income and below, with typical assets:Free
Financial aid covers all billed expenses, including tuition, fees, food, housing, and more, including a $2,000 start-up grant (first year), health insurance (if needed), travel costs between campus and home, winter gear, event fees, and other activities, and a $2,000 launch grant (junior year) to help students prepare for post-Harvard life.
$200,000 family income and below, with typical assets:Free Tuition Plus
Financial aid covers the full cost of tuition, plus. In addition to tuition, students qualify for financial aid to cover additional costs, such as fees, food, and housing, based on their individual financial circumstances.
Family income above $200,000 with typical assets:Tailored Financial Aid
Financial aid will be available to many students from families with incomes above $200,000, depending on individual circumstances.Harvard College’s financial aid staff work personally and individually with students and families to provide financial aid that matches each family’s specific financial situation.
These thresholds assume typical assets and typically do not include equity in the family home or retirement assets. They are based on an average U.S. cost of living and taxes paid. Students are expected to cover $3,500 in personal expenses per academic year, usually through work-study hours.
Applying for Financial Aid - Prospective and Current Students
Apply for Financial Aid
Traveling on Harvard Funding: My Spring Break Trip to Cairo, Egypt!
How Financial Aid Works
How Financial Aid Works
By The Numbers
2525%of Harvard families pay nothing
2525%of Harvard families pay nothing
5555%receive Harvard scholarship aid
5555%receive Harvard scholarship aid
$1313Kaverage parent contribution
$1313Kaverage parent contribution
100100%of students can graduate debt-free
100100%of students can graduate debt-free
Net Price Calculator
How affordable will Harvard be for your family? See for yourself.
Watch "Financial Aid Student Stories"
This preview video does not contain audio.
Video description:Four students talk about their experiences receiving financial aid from Harvard
Four students talk about their experiences receiving financial aid from Harvard
Video
Additional Funding & Procedures
Additional Funding & Procedures
Supplemental funding for research, service, and more
In addition to aid for tuition, Harvard offers millions of dollars in student funding for public service, research and learning, international travel, and career opportunities.
History of Financial Aid
From the first bequest to aid students in 1643 to Ken Griffin's landmark gift of $125 million in 2014 - and beyond, we've maintained a strong commitment to affordability and access.
Federal Disclosures
As required by the Department of Education, we are providing information on thefederal Consumer Information disclosures. These disclosures entail: basic financial aid information, descriptions of Harvard’s academic programs, procedures, and costs, as well as Harvard’s policies and required reporting. In this notice we provide a brief description of the various disclosures and how to obtain the full disclosures.
Learn More About Harvard
Join our email list to download our brochure and stay in touch.
Contacting the Griffin Financial Aid Office
At this time, the Griffin Financial Aid Office will be conducting business in a hybrid remote and on-campus model. We are dedicated to answering your questions and will be available by email to assist. If you are a current student, please emailfaoinfo@fas.harvard.edu. For prospective students, please emailfaoweb@fas.harvard.edu. If you need to contact the Student Employment Office, please emailseoweb@fas.harvard.edu.
Related Topics
Apply For Financial Aid
We strive to make our financial aid application as streamlined as possible.
How to complete the FAFSA
Tips on how to complete the FAFSA, the Free Application for Federal Student Aid.
How Aid Works
Harvard offers generous need-based financial aid for all students, regardless of nationality or citizenship.
URL: https://college.harvard.edu/academics
Video description:Female student wearing backup walking up Widener steps, pans to student walking into Widener, view of Loker Reading room. Students seen studying at tables
Female student wearing backup walking up Widener steps, pans to student walking into Widener, view of Loker Reading room. Students seen studying at tables
Academics
Overview
Give in to Your Curiosity
As a liberal arts and sciences college nestled within a world-class research university, Harvard gives you both the freedom to shape your own course of study and the resources to see it through. So, what are you waiting for? Stake a claim and learn from those who challenge it. Ask a complex question and grow from the process of answering it. Master the subjects you love, but never forget to explore the unfamiliar terrain that lies just beyond your comfort zone.
Liberal Arts & Sciences
Liberal Arts & Sciences
How do I choose a major at Harvard?
Intellectual Vitality
Fostering a Community of Learning
Through intellectual vitality, the Harvard College community seeks to establish a culture in which all members speak, listen, and ask questions of each other – and ourselves – with curiosity and respect. This is critical to achieve the mission of Harvard College and what we as a community believe in.
Office of Undergraduate Education
The Office of Undergraduate Education is responsible for curriculum planning and requirements, as well as a number of student-focused programs that include advising, first-year seminars, career services, and more.
Faculty
Faculty
Faculty Engagement by the Numbers
110110Faculty teaching first-year seminars
110110Faculty teaching first-year seminars
260260Pre-concentration advisors
260260Pre-concentration advisors
7:17:1Student-to-faculty ratio
7:17:1Student-to-faculty ratio
1010Median course size
1010Median course size
Research
Academic Integrity
Academic integrity is the foundation of the academic experience at Harvard College. Students at Harvard learn how to acknowledge when their work is indebted to others’, and about the value of producing original scholarship.
Advising
Advising
Academic Resource Center
The Academic Resource Center (ARC) at Harvard University supports Harvard students in developing reading and study strategies, time management skills, and metacognitive approaches to learning. Students have access to academic coaching, peer tutoring, workshops, accountability hours, and additional skills-based resources.
Learn More About Harvard
Join our email list to download our brochure and stay in touch.
Related Topics
Campus
From our libraries to our museums, our support services to our common spaces, our campus is teeming with resources to guide your experience.
Research
As a college within a research university, Harvard undergraduates have access to unparalleled research opportunities. Learn about research at Harvard.
Leadership & Service
Members of our community uphold a commitment to making the world a better place for all. Learn how to make an impact through leadership and service.
URL: https://college.harvard.edu/financial-aid/how-aid-works/cost-attendance
How Aid Works
Overview
By The Numbers
$1313KAverage Parent Contribution
$1313KAverage Parent Contribution
2525%Of Harvard Families Pay Nothing
2525%Of Harvard Families Pay Nothing
100100%Of Demonstrated Financial Need is Met
100100%Of Demonstrated Financial Need is Met
Our Principles
You Can Afford Harvard
We know that paying for college is a big concern for many families, and we’re committed to making a Harvard education – and the opportunities that come with it – possible for more students than ever. International students are eligible for exactly the same aid as American students.
Because we want to bring the best people to Harvard regardless of their financial circumstances, we follow two important principles:
Need-blind admissions.Your financial need and your aid application will never affect your chance of being admitted to Harvard.
100% need-based aid.We base aid awards on need, not on merit. This means that financial aid supports the students who will benefit from it the most. Furthermore, we meet 100 percent of our students' demonstrated financial need.
We will work with you and your family one-on-one to help you navigate the options and make sure Harvard is an affordable option for your education.
Revolutionary Financial Aid
This preview video does not contain audio.
Video description:Lucerito and her parents in their California home
Lucerito and her parents in their California home
Video
Determining Need
Our financial aid officers will work closely with you and your family to determine your demonstrated need and your family’s expected contribution. We look at information about your family income, assets, expenses, and other financial circumstances. Every family's circumstances are unique, and we aim to take into account factors beyond just your family income that affect your family's ability to pay for college. The simplest way to put it is this: We want to make Harvard accessible and affordable for everyone who gets in—no matter what.
Use ourNet Price Calculatorto quickly estimate your aid package and expected family contribution.
FAQs about determining need
Parent ContributionWe determine parent contribution through a careful review of your family's income, assets, and overall financial circumstances.For families with annual incomes below $100,000, the expected parent contribution is zero. For families with incomes up to $200,000, financial aid will cover at least the full cost of tuition. Financial aid will be available to students from families with incomes above $200,000, depending on individual circumstances.Families who have significant assets will be asked to pay more, but typically home equity and retirement assets are not considered in our assessment of financial need.Parents may provide their contribution from savings, current income, future income (through borrowing), or a combination of these methods.You can use ournet price calculatorto estimate your expected family contribution.
We determine parent contribution through a careful review of your family's income, assets, and overall financial circumstances.
For families with annual incomes below $100,000, the expected parent contribution is zero. For families with incomes up to $200,000, financial aid will cover at least the full cost of tuition. Financial aid will be available to students from families with incomes above $200,000, depending on individual circumstances.
Families who have significant assets will be asked to pay more, but typically home equity and retirement assets are not considered in our assessment of financial need.
Parents may provide their contribution from savings, current income, future income (through borrowing), or a combination of these methods.
You can use ournet price calculatorto estimate your expected family contribution.
Student ContributionAs the primary beneficiary of a Harvard education, all students are expected to contribute to their college expenses. Your financial aid award will include a standard expected contribution from your own earnings.In the past, students were expected to contribute from both term-time and summer earnings; however,we have recently expanded our financial aid programby eliminating the summer work expectation for all students beginning in the 2020-21 academic year. Students are still expected to contribute a standard amount through term-time work to meet their estimated personal expenses.If you have savings or other assets, you will also be expected to contribute a small portion toward college expenses. This determination will be included with your financial aid award.Most students work to meet their student contribution, and jobs on campus are plentiful and varied. Visit ourGuide to Student Employmentfor more information. Some students use outside awards or loans to replace their expected contribution. If you can't save up enough for your student contribution, the Harvard Loan program may be able to help.
As the primary beneficiary of a Harvard education, all students are expected to contribute to their college expenses. Your financial aid award will include a standard expected contribution from your own earnings.
In the past, students were expected to contribute from both term-time and summer earnings; however,we have recently expanded our financial aid programby eliminating the summer work expectation for all students beginning in the 2020-21 academic year. Students are still expected to contribute a standard amount through term-time work to meet their estimated personal expenses.
If you have savings or other assets, you will also be expected to contribute a small portion toward college expenses. This determination will be included with your financial aid award.
Most students work to meet their student contribution, and jobs on campus are plentiful and varied. Visit ourGuide to Student Employmentfor more information. Some students use outside awards or loans to replace their expected contribution. If you can't save up enough for your student contribution, the Harvard Loan program may be able to help.
Unusual Family CircumstancesWe know that every family is different. Your financial circumstances are also unique. We are happy to work with you on an individual basis if you have complex, uncommon, or challenging financial circumstances that are not easily described in the standard aid application.We hope families discuss the cost of going to college and agree that paying for education is a priority, but we can't provide extra aid for students whose parents withdraw financial support. Similarly, we can't provide additional aid for families that have incurred large consumer debts.Please know that we will work with you and your family to make Harvard as affordable as possible.Contact the FAOto learn more.
We know that every family is different. Your financial circumstances are also unique. We are happy to work with you on an individual basis if you have complex, uncommon, or challenging financial circumstances that are not easily described in the standard aid application.
We hope families discuss the cost of going to college and agree that paying for education is a priority, but we can't provide extra aid for students whose parents withdraw financial support. Similarly, we can't provide additional aid for families that have incurred large consumer debts.Please know that we will work with you and your family to make Harvard as affordable as possible.Contact the FAOto learn more.
Net Price Calculator
How affordable is Harvard? Use our Net Price Calculator and see for yourself.
Cost of Attendance
We know that paying for a private college education is a significant undertaking. Our goal is to make sure it remains manageable for you and your family.
These values represent the full cost of a Harvard education before taking into account financial aid or scholarships, so the amount that your family will pay will likely be significantly lower. If you are eligible for aid, you may also receive an additional allowance for travel and personal expenses. You can use ourNet Price Calculatorto gain a better estimate of your personal cost of attendance.
Tuition & Estimated Expenses
2025-20262025-2026 Cost of AttendanceTuition$59,320Fees$5,476Housing$13,532Food$8,598Subtotal - billed costs$86,926Estimated personal expenses$2,500Estimated books$1,000Estimated transportation costs$0-$5,000Total billed and unbilled costs$90,426-$95,426In addition, health insurance is required at a cost of $4,308 (for 2025-26) unless you are covered under your family’s health plan.
Tuition
$59,320
Fees
$5,476
Housing
$13,532
Food
$8,598
Subtotal - billed costs
$86,926
Estimated personal expenses
$2,500
Estimated books
$1,000
Estimated transportation costs
$0-$5,000
Total billed and unbilled costs
$90,426-$95,426
In addition, health insurance is required at a cost of $4,308 (for 2025-26) unless you are covered under your family’s health plan.
2024-20252024-2025 Cost of AttendanceTuition$56,550Fees$5,126Housing$12,922Food$8,268Subtotal - billed costs$82,866Estimated personal expenses$2,500Estimated books$1,000Estimated transportation costs$0-$4,800Total billed and unbilled costs$86,366-$91,166In addition, health insurance is required at a cost of $4,202 (for 2024-25) unless you are covered under your family’s health plan.
Tuition
$56,550
Fees
$5,126
Housing
$12,922
Food
$8,268
Subtotal - billed costs
$82,866
Estimated personal expenses
$2,500
Estimated books
$1,000
Estimated transportation costs
$0-$4,800
Total billed and unbilled costs
$86,366-$91,166
In addition, health insurance is required at a cost of $4,202 (for 2024-25) unless you are covered under your family’s health plan.
2023-20242023-2024 Cost of AttendanceTuition$54,269Fees$4,807Housing$12,424Food$7,950Subtotal - billed costs$79,450Estimated personal expenses$2,500Estimated books$1,000Estimated transportation costs$0-$4,500Total billed and unbilled costs$82,950-$87,450In addition, health insurance is required at a cost of $4,120 (for 2023-24) unless you are covered under your family’s health plan.
Tuition
$54,269
Fees
$4,807
Housing
$12,424
Food
$7,950
Subtotal - billed costs
$79,450
Estimated personal expenses
$2,500
Estimated books
$1,000
Estimated transportation costs
$0-$4,500
Total billed and unbilled costs
$82,950-$87,450
In addition, health insurance is required at a cost of $4,120 (for 2023-24) unless you are covered under your family’s health plan.
History of Financial Aid
Harvard’s long tradition of opportunity and access continues to be strengthened by the partnership and generosity of our amazing alumni and donor community.
Types of Aid
Financial aid is completely need-based and considers many factors, such as your family’s income, assets, size, and unusual expenses. There are no merit-based awards, and we have no preferential policies that give some students more attractive awards than others.
When you qualify for financial aid from Harvard, we create an individualized aid package to meet all of your demonstrated need. This may include scholarship funds and student employment, as well as any scholarships you’ve earned from outside sources. Parent and student loans are also available for interested families, although we will never require you to take out loans.
Bills & Payments
Your attention should be on your education, not your bill. We strive to make our billing and payment process as streamlined as possible. Learn more about bills and payments.
Related Topics
Prospective Students
Find information on applying for financial aid as a first-year student. We're here to help.
Types of Aid
Your financial aid package is made up of a combination of scholarship (grant) funds, student employment, and any potential outside awards.
Financial Aid Fact Sheet
Get the facts about Harvard College's revolutionary financial aid program.
URL: https://college.harvard.edu/financial-aid/types-aid
55% of students receive need-based Harvard scholarships. 1 in 4 pays nothing to attend.
Types of Aid
Overview
Many Ways to Support Your Education
Your financial aid package is made up of a combination of scholarship (grant) funds, student employment, and any potential outside awards. Loans are never required, but are available to interested families.
We will work with your family one-on-one to help you navigate options and make sure Harvard is an affordable option for your undergraduate education.
Scholarships & Grants
When you qualify for financial aid from Harvard, we use a combination of resources to create an individualized aid package to meet your demonstrated need. This may include scholarship funds and student employment, as well as any awards you’ve earned from outside sources. Parent and student loans are also available for interested families.
Because Harvard is committed to affordability, our scholarships are designed to cover 100% of your demonstrated financial need. Here is our process:
First we determine your award by establishing yourparent contribution
Then we factor in student employment and any outside awards you’ve received
Your remaining need will be covered by scholarship funds which are grant-based and never need to be repaid
Scholarship funds come from a variety of sources, including Harvard endowment funds, gifts from alumni, general tuition revenues, and federal and state grants.
The Faculty of Arts and Sciences Scholarship program includes more than 2,000 individual endowment and gift funds, established by generous alumni and donors, including atransformational $150 million giftfrom Ken Griffin ‘89. We report to many of these donors annually using the information students share with us over the summer.
Federal and state grants
If you are a U.S. citizen or permanent resident, you may be eligible for a Federal Pell Grant or a Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (SEOG). Your eligibility is determined by the information you provide in your Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA).
Pell Grants and SEOG are awarded by the federal government and administered by our office, based on financial need. Within 10 days of filing your FAFSA, you will receive a Student Aid Report indicating your eligibility for a Pell Grant.
If you are a Massachusetts resident, you may also be eligible for a state Gilbert Grant, which is awarded on the basis of need. These awards do not affect your term-time work expectation.
Outside Awards
Scholarships and Grants from Outside Harvard
Like many of our students, you may receive scholarship funds from sources outside Harvard, such as secondary schools, civic organizations, your parental employers, corporations, the National Merit Scholarship Programs, and the ROTC.
Since the intent of these awards is that they be used for educational purposes, you must report them to Harvard and apply them toward your college expenses. We will consider your outside awards as a part of your overall financial aid funding.
Funds from outside awards are incorporated into your financial aid package in two steps:
First to replace the term-time job expectation.
If you have outside awards that exceed your term-time work expectation the remaining amount would replace an equal amount of Harvard scholarship.
Since outside awards are additional resources that reduce your financial need, they cannot be used to replace your parent contribution.
Report your outside awards through theOutside Awards Reporting Systemfound under the Financial Aid tab of your My.Harvard student portal.Find where to send checks and Verification of Enrollment formson our website.
How to find outside awards
Use these resources to find outside award opportunities:College Board: The College Board has launched a scholarship program with $5 million in scholarships offered each year.Fastweb!: Create a personalized profile that can be matched against a database of more than 1.5 million scholarships totaling more than $3.4 billion, and get notifications of new scholarships and approaching deadlines.Scholarships.com: Search scholarships from nearly 3,000 sources, potentially worth up to $3 billion.CollegeScholarships.org: Search for scholarships and grants from many different sources, and find information on both federal and private financial aid sources.UNIGO: Find scholarships that match your hobbies, interests, and academic background in a database of 3.6 million awards worth over $14 billion. Gain tips on finding and applying for scholarships and download scholarship applications.Scholarship Search by SallieMae: Access more than 5 million awards worth over $24 billion and get notifications when new scholarships become available.
College Board: The College Board has launched a scholarship program with $5 million in scholarships offered each year.
Fastweb!: Create a personalized profile that can be matched against a database of more than 1.5 million scholarships totaling more than $3.4 billion, and get notifications of new scholarships and approaching deadlines.
Scholarships.com: Search scholarships from nearly 3,000 sources, potentially worth up to $3 billion.
CollegeScholarships.org: Search for scholarships and grants from many different sources, and find information on both federal and private financial aid sources.
UNIGO: Find scholarships that match your hobbies, interests, and academic background in a database of 3.6 million awards worth over $14 billion. Gain tips on finding and applying for scholarships and download scholarship applications.
Scholarship Search by SallieMae: Access more than 5 million awards worth over $24 billion and get notifications when new scholarships become available.
Calculate Your Net Price
Just how affordable is Harvard for your family? Try our Net Price Calculator and get a personalized estimate in less than five minutes.
Student Employment
All students, regardless of their financial aid status, may work during the academic year—and in fact, around two-thirds of our students do. If you receive financial aid from Harvard, you will likely be expected to contribute to your education through employment. Your expected term-time work expectation is based on your working a reasonable number of hours during the semester—often around 10 to 12 hours per week. All wages earned are paid directly to you, rather than appearing on your term bill, and can be used to help pay for your out-of-pocket personal expenses.
Whatever your situation, theStudent Employment Officeis available to help you find work at University institutions, including libraries, museums, and cafeterias.
When you apply for aid, your financial aid package will indicate your eligibility for the Federal Work-Study Program (FWSP). The Federal Work-Study Program subsidizes the wages of eligible students, making them particularly attractive to employers. If you are eligible, you will be able to work in FWSP-designated jobs at the University (and sometimes off campus as well). FWSP funds are available for both term-time and summer employment. Browse the Student Employment Office jobs database for FWSP eligible jobs.
Loans
Student Loans
You are not expected to take out loans as part of your financial aid package. Our aid packages are designed to cover your financial need without additional borrowing. In fact, most of our students graduate debt-free. However, you may choose to pursue loans to help cover your student or family contribution. Students may request loans using ourStudent Loan Request Form.
If you are interested in a loan, we will help you find one that works for you. You may also consider federal or private parent loans.
Types of Student Loans for 25-26
Federal Direct Subsidized LoanTo be eligible, you must be a US citizen, permanent resident or other eligible noncitizen and must complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA).Eligibility for this loan is determined by your level of federal aid eligibility as well as your level of eligibility for aid from Harvard.Maximum amounts: up to $3,500 for first-year, up to $4,500 for sophomores, and up to $5,500 for juniors and seniors.Need-based loan with interest paid by the federal government during enrollment, grace and deferment periods.Loans are “variable fixed”, meaning borrowers would receive a new rate with each new loan, but then that rate would be fixed for the life of the loan.Interest rate is fixed and rates for the 2025-26 academic year can be found here:https://studentaid.gov/understand-aid/types/loans/interest-rates.Net origination loan fee for 2025-26 can be found here:https://studentaid.gov/understand-aid/types/loans/interest-rates#fees.Repayment begins six months after the student graduates or drops below half-time enrollment.
To be eligible, you must be a US citizen, permanent resident or other eligible noncitizen and must complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA).
Eligibility for this loan is determined by your level of federal aid eligibility as well as your level of eligibility for aid from Harvard.
Maximum amounts: up to $3,500 for first-year, up to $4,500 for sophomores, and up to $5,500 for juniors and seniors.
Need-based loan with interest paid by the federal government during enrollment, grace and deferment periods.
Loans are “variable fixed”, meaning borrowers would receive a new rate with each new loan, but then that rate would be fixed for the life of the loan.
Interest rate is fixed and rates for the 2025-26 academic year can be found here:https://studentaid.gov/understand-aid/types/loans/interest-rates.
Net origination loan fee for 2025-26 can be found here:https://studentaid.gov/understand-aid/types/loans/interest-rates#fees.
Repayment begins six months after the student graduates or drops below half-time enrollment.
Federal Direct Unsubsidized LoanTo be eligible, you must be a US citizen, permanent resident or other eligible noncitizen and must complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA)Maximum amounts: up to $5,500 for first-year, up to $6,500 for sophomores, and up to $7,500 for juniors and seniors.Students eligible for a Direct Subsidized Loan can also receive the maximum amount of subsidized loan listed above, plus $2,000 in Direct Unsubsidized Loan.Non-need-based loan with interest accruing from disbursement; interest can be paid quarterly or capitalized and added to the principal amount when repayment begins.Interest rate, fees, and repayment are the same as the Direct Subsidized Loan.
To be eligible, you must be a US citizen, permanent resident or other eligible noncitizen and must complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA)
Maximum amounts: up to $5,500 for first-year, up to $6,500 for sophomores, and up to $7,500 for juniors and seniors.
Students eligible for a Direct Subsidized Loan can also receive the maximum amount of subsidized loan listed above, plus $2,000 in Direct Unsubsidized Loan.
Non-need-based loan with interest accruing from disbursement; interest can be paid quarterly or capitalized and added to the principal amount when repayment begins.
Interest rate, fees, and repayment are the same as the Direct Subsidized Loan.
Harvard LoansThe Harvard Loan is available to all need-based aid recipients, regardless of citizenship or federal aid eligibility.Need-based loan with interest paid by Harvard during enrollment, grace, and deferment period.Interest rate fixed at 4.0 percent (5.0% for loans disbursed prior to 07/01/2016) with 10 years to repay.No origination or insurance fees.Repayment begins six months after you graduate or drop below half-time enrollment.The monthly payment will be $10.61 per $1,000 borrowed, or a minimum of $50.Does not require eligibility for federal loan programs.
The Harvard Loan is available to all need-based aid recipients, regardless of citizenship or federal aid eligibility.
Need-based loan with interest paid by Harvard during enrollment, grace, and deferment period.
Interest rate fixed at 4.0 percent (5.0% for loans disbursed prior to 07/01/2016) with 10 years to repay.
No origination or insurance fees.
Repayment begins six months after you graduate or drop below half-time enrollment.
The monthly payment will be $10.61 per $1,000 borrowed, or a minimum of $50.
Does not require eligibility for federal loan programs.
Additional loan informationSee the HarvardStudent Debt Management GuideGet answers to questions aboutFederal Direct LoansCheck thecurrent federal recordof your outstanding federal loansFind more information onprivate student loans.
See the HarvardStudent Debt Management Guide
Get answers to questions aboutFederal Direct Loans
Check thecurrent federal recordof your outstanding federal loans
Find more information onprivate student loans.
Parent Loans
Your family may choose to pursue loans to spread the cost of education over a number of years. You can take out loans to cover the entire cost of education, or just a portion of the cost, as a supplement to contributions from family income and assets.
We will help you navigate both federal and private loan options. While there are no income restrictions, you must pass standard tests of creditworthiness. All loans may be prepaid partially or in full with no penalty.
If you intend to borrow a parent loan, applications are typically available after June 1st and should be submitted by August 1st in order for loan credits to be available toward registration. Please apply for only one parent loan at a time
Related Topics
Apply For Financial Aid
We strive to make our financial aid application as streamlined as possible.
Managing Your Aid
Information on taking a leave of absence, notifying us about outside awards, federal verification, and sibling verification.
Guide to Student Employment
Finding a rewarding and fulfilling student job at Harvard is simple, and the Harvard Student Employment Office (SEO) is here to help.
URL: https://college.harvard.edu/student-life
Video description:group of students laughing and talking while walking over a bridge over the Charles River, male baseball player in uniform and smiling and holding a bat,  4 female students in conversation and walking along the Charles river, male dancers on stage, and crowd of students is shown
group of students laughing and talking while walking over a bridge over the Charles River, male baseball player in uniform and smiling and holding a bat,  4 female students in conversation and walking along the Charles river, male dancers on stage, and crowd of students is shown
Student Life
Overview
Welcome Home
From your professors and House advisers to your friends and teammates, Harvard is a vibrant community where you can feel supported and encouraged. No matter where you come from, Harvard is home.
Today at Harvard
Today at Harvard
View the College Calendar
Residential Life
Student Activities
Student Activities
Student life by the numbers
500+500+Student organizations
500+500+Student organizations
125+125+Active service programs for Phillips Brooks House during the academic year
125+125+Active service programs for Phillips Brooks House during the academic year
400+400+Students pursuing various service projects during the summer for Phillips Brooks House
400+400+Students pursuing various service projects during the summer for Phillips Brooks House
3,400+3,400+Students participating in the arts
3,400+3,400+Students participating in the arts
Athletics
Nearly 80 percent of Harvard students participate in athletics—and everyone joins in to cheer on their friends and show their Crimson pride.
Health & Wellbeing
Health & Wellbeing
Navigating Your Healthcare in College: My Health Journey At Harvard
Student Stories
Harvard Housing Day
Latest Stories
Hey, mate! I just studied abroad!People have told me that the best way to appreciate Harvard is to study abroad, and that it’s one of the best opportunities that Harvard has to offer.Read Full Story
Hey, mate! I just studied abroad!
People have told me that the best way to appreciate Harvard is to study abroad, and that it’s one of the best opportunities that Harvard has to offer.
My First-Year Journey to Finding CommunityOne of the best decisions I made was applying to the First-Year International Program, known as FIP in Harvard lingo. It’s one of the pre-orientation programs, designed specifically for international students.Read Full Story
My First-Year Journey to Finding Community
One of the best decisions I made was applying to the First-Year International Program, known as FIP in Harvard lingo. It’s one of the pre-orientation programs, designed specifically for international students.
Why I Chose Government at HarvardIn the fall of 2024, I declared my concentration in Government. Here’s how I got there.Read Full Story
Why I Chose Government at Harvard
In the fall of 2024, I declared my concentration in Government. Here’s how I got there.
Learn More About Harvard
Join our email list to download our brochure and stay in touch.
Related Topics
Campus
From our libraries to our museums, our support services to our common spaces, our campus is teeming with resources to guide your experience.
Financial Aid
The Griffin Financial Aid Office provides need-based aid that allows us to bring the best students to Harvard, regardless of their ability to pay.
Navigating Campus Day-to-Day
Navigating College life can be tricky—this guide brings all of your need-to-know links into one place.
URL: https://www.harvard.edu/about
24,519undergraduate and graduate students
undergraduate and graduate students
20,667faculty and  staff
faculty and  staff
400,000+alumni worldwide
alumni worldwide
35 million+learners through Harvard Online
learners through Harvard Online
President of Harvard UniversityAlan M. Garber
President
Alan M. Garber leads Harvard University as its 31st President.
Deans and Officers
Leading Harvard’s Schools and many offices
Harvard Corporation
The oldest corporation in the Western Hemisphere
Board of Overseers
Alumni committed to Harvard’s missions and interests
On October 28, 1636, Harvard, the first college in the American colonies, was founded in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Harvard University was officially founded by a vote by the Great and General Court of the Massachusetts Bay Colony.
Harvard’s endowmentstarted with John Harvard’s initial donation of 400 books and half his estate, but in 1721, Thomas Hollis began the now standard practice of requiring that a donation be used for a specific purpose when he donated money for “a Divinity Professor, to read lectures in the Halls to the students.”
Women’s history at Harvard
As staff members, then as students and faculty, the women of Harvard paved the way for the next generation, and continue to carve new paths today.
Asian and Pacific American history at Harvard
We explore the histories, cultures, and contributions of Harvard’s Asian and Pacific Island communities throughout our history.
African American history at Harvard
A complete look at Harvard’s Black history includes the dual legacies of slavery and discrimination along with pioneering moments of inclusion, equity, and empowerment.
$5.35 millionfor improvements to public parks and open spaces, neighborhood beautification, streetscape enhancements, public safety initiatives, and public art.
for improvements to public parks and open spaces, neighborhood beautification, streetscape enhancements, public safety initiatives, and public art.
650,000visitors to Harvard museums each year
visitors to Harvard museums each year
20+locations abroad that link Harvard faculty and students to local academic institutions, government organizations, businesses, and communities
locations abroad that link Harvard faculty and students to local academic institutions, government organizations, businesses, and communities
Local commitment
Harvard is dedicated to giving back to the places we call home.
Global perspective
We invite the world to pursue scholarship on our campus and in our research centers around the globe.
URL: https://www.harvard.edu/academics
Harvard Schools
When you come to Harvard, either to pursue an undergraduate liberal arts concentration from Harvard College or to join one of our 12 graduate and professional Schools, you become part of our legacy of impactful scholarship and cutting-edge research.
Learn more about our Schools
Undergraduate programs
Graduate programs
Financial aid at Harvard
Many schools and programs across Harvard provide financial assistance to students who attend. Supported in large part by our endowment, this funding includes grants and financial aid, paid graduate fellowships and assistantships, and other programs.
Learn more about undergraduate financial aid
Online courses
Bring Harvard home. Gain knowledge. Make an impact.
Harvard Extension School
Access Harvard. Unlock your potential.
Professional and lifelong learning
Expand your skill set. Become a better leader.
The Crimson Summer Academy
For Boston and Cambridge high school students
Harvard Summer School
Visiting undergraduate and graduate students
High school sophomores, juniors, and seniors
Adults and working professionals
Philip Roth: Stung by Life
Philip Roth: Stung by Life
A Conversation with José Andrés
A Conversation with José Andrés
"American Fiction" Writer and Academy Award Winner: Cord Jefferson
"American Fiction" Writer and Academy Award Winner: Cord Jefferson
URL: https://www.harvard.edu/admissions-aid
URL: https://www.harvard.edu/contact-harvard
List of departments
Visit the A to Z Index
Admissions information
Contact a specific academic program
Scholarship information
Contact a specific academic program
Media inquiries
Visit Media Relations
(617) 495-1585
Public safety
Visit Harvard University Police Department (HUPD)
(617) 495-1215(non-emergency only)
Academics
Visit the Office of the Provost
Find a specific Harvard school
Degree verification
Find the specific School registrar
Employment
Work at Harvard
College FAQ
Information for international students, scholarships, and financial aid

